=pod

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP23 - Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists

=begin header

BEP: 23
Title: Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists
Version: $Rev$
Last-Modified: $Date$
Author:  David Harrison <dave@bittorrent.com>
Status:  Accepted
Type:    Standards track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 12-May-2008
Post-History:

=end header

=head1 Description

To reduce the size of tracker responses and to reduce memory and computational
requirements in trackers, trackers may return peers as a packed string rather
than as a bencoded list.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in L<IETF RFC 2119|/RFC-2119>.

=head1 Overview

In BitTorrent as described in L<BEP 3|Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03> peers
wishing to transfer a file contact a central tracker. This tracker returns a
list of peers that are currently transferring the file. The list of peers is
implemented as a list of bencoded dicts. Each dict in the list contains three
fields: *peer id*, *ip*, and *port*. The *peer id* is C<20> bytes plus C<3>
bytes bencoding overhead. The *ip* is a string containing a domain name or an
IP address, and an integer port number. The *ip* is variable length, but since
in its longest form it is a domain name it
L<cannot exceed C<255> bytes|/RFC-1034> plus C<4> bytes bencoding overhead.
Bencoded integers are also variable length but since it is a port number, it
cannot be more than C<7> bytes including bencoding overhead. Thus,

  total peer list length in bytes < n * ( 23 + 259 + 7 )

It is common now to use a compact format where each peer is represented using
only C<6> bytes.  The first C<4> bytes contain the C<32>-bit ipv4 address. The
remaining two bytes contain the port number. Both address and port use
network-byte order.

It is SUGGESTED that trackers return compact format by default. By including
*compact=0* in the announce URL, the client advises the tracker that is
prefers the original format described in
L<BEP 3|Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03>, and analogously C<compact=1>
advises the tracker that the client prefers compact format. However the
C<compact> key-value pair is only advisory: the tracker MAY return using
either format. C<compact> is advisory so that trackers may support only the
compact format. However, clients MUST continue to support both.

For example,

  GET /announce?peer_id=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa&info_hash=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  &port=6881&left=0&downloaded=100&uploaded=0&compact=1

The compact form at uses the same *peers* key in the bencoded tracker
response, but the value is a bencoded string rather than a bencoded list.

The peer id does not appear in the compact format. The format has been in use
for years and the lack of a peer id has posed no problems.

This compact format is supported by BitTorrent mainline, Azureus, libtorrent,
uTorrent, and probably most other clients.

=head1 References

=over

=item BEP_0003. The BitTorrent Protocol Specification. Cohen.
(L<http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html>)

=item X<RFC-1034> RFC-1034. DOMAIN NAMES - CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES.
Mockapetris, November 1987. (L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1034>)

=item X<RFC-2119> RFC-2119. (L<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt>)

=back

=head1 Copyright

This document has been placed in the public domain.

=cut
