=pod

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Todo - TODO list for Perl module Net::BitTorrent

=head1 High priorities

=over 2

=item * Get help

=back

=head1 Short term goals

=over 2

=item * Verify multi-thread processing (for non-blocking hashcheck, for example.)

=item * Complete test suite

Create a series of bad .torrent files to test N::B::Torrent with:

=over 2

=item * invalid pieces string

=over 2

=item * string length does not % 40 evenly

=item * string is shorter than 40 chars

=item * piece_length * num_pieces is nowhere near total_size_of_torrent

=back

=back

=item * Improve detection of bad .torrent metadata.

=item * Per-torrent transfer limits.

=item * Start, stop, pause individual torrents.

=item * Taint safe.

=back

=head1 Long term goals

=over 2

=item * Net::BitTorrent::Notes - Description of N::B's internals

=over 2

=item * Data layout

=item * Behavior

=item * Shortfalls

=back

=item * improve file handling

=over 2

=item * large torrents (> 4G) typically require 64bit math

=item * .piece file to store incoming blocks

=back

=item * Wire protocol encryption (?)

=over 2

=item * Not internal.  A callback, perhaps.

=back

=item * scripts/gui-client.pl?

=over 2

=item * very light gui example using Wx

=back

=item *  Internal bans for 'bad' peers

=over 2

=item * Penalty (and eventual ban) for peers who always seem involved with bad pieces

=back

=item * PoCo::BitTorrent

=over 2

=item * Not to be confused with the other PoCo::BitTorrent

=back

=item * UDP trackers

=item * Fast Peers

Partial support currently

=back

=head1 Duke Nukem: Forever

=over 2

=item * perlcritic severity=stern

=over 2

=item * This is actually possible now with a bit of work.

=back

=over 2

=item * Single class

=item * No extensions

=item * Trimmed API

=back

=back

=for svn $Id$

=cut
