=pod

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Notes - Annotated Guide to the Ins and Outs of Net::BitTorrent

=head1 Description

This is a first draft attempt at defining a road map for future
C<Net::BitTorrent> development and a behavioral reference for third-party
client developers.  A few bits for users might slip in too.

=head1 Net::BitTorrent's Way-too-Obvious Class Hierarchy

                                            .---- N::B::T::T::UDP
                                           /
                      .-------- N::B::T::Tracker
                     /                     \
                    /   .-- N::B::T::File   `--- N::B::T::T::HTTP
                   /   /
            .---- Net::BitTorrent::Torrent
           /
          /   .--- Net::BitTorrent::DHT
         /   /
  Net::BitTorrent
         \
          `---- Net::BitTorrent::Peer

The following utility modules also come with the distribution and will be
of great use if you decide to whip together your own BitTorrent module.

=over

=item C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol>

Correctly builds and parses all known BitTorrent packets.

=for TODO And contains other protocol-related values (MSE's 768bit safe Diffie-Hellman prime, for example)

=item C<Net::BitTorrent::Util>

Contains basic functions to parse and create .torrent metadata files, and
compact peer lists from trackers.

=back

To pick and choose which functions will be exported into your namespace
from these modules, see their POD documentation for more information.

=head1 Installation

This distribution uses C<Module::Build> for installation, so use the
following procedure:

  perl Build.PL
  ./Build
  ./Build test
  ./Build install

See also: L<Automated Test Reports|/"Automated Test Reports">

=head2 Prerequisites

C<Net::BitTorrent> requires L<version|version> and
L<Digest::SHA|Digest::SHA>.  On Win32, we try to use
L<Win32API::File|Win32API::File> and L<Encode|Encode> to handle extended
charset filenamesL<[1]|/"[1]">.  As of perl 5.10, all of these modules
are are CORE; they come bundled with the distribution.

I have listed these modules as prerequisites in Build.PL so, unless you
answer 'no' when prompted, the CPAN shell should automagically install
them for you.

X<[1]> We also use the internal C<utf8()> functions which didn't appear
until perl 5.8.1.

=head1 How Do I...

Parts that aren't handled internally are described here (eventually) with
sample code to get you started.

=head2 Get basic info from a .torrent without adding it to a client

L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent> objects can be
created directly without a parent client.  While functionally limited
(obvious things like an inability to serve data, etc.) basic information
is available and some 'advanced' functions still work (hashchecking, for
example).  See L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent> for
more.

=head2 Pause and Resume a .torrent Session

See
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::pause( )|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent/"pause( )">
and
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::start( )|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent/"start( )">

=head2 Stop and Resume a .torrent Session

See
See
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::stop( )|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent/"stop( )">
and
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::start( )|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent/"start( )">


=head2 Quick Resume a .torrent Session Between Client Sessions

Note: This section describes resume functionality as of C<v0.045>.

C<Net::BitTorrent> is capable of restoring the state of single torrents
between sessions.  To store resume data, use the
L<save_resume_data( )|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent/"save_resume_data ( [ PATH ] )">

To resume a single torrent, use a variation of the following to save the
data...

 my $torrent = $bt->add_torrent( { Path=> 'some.torrent', Resume = '.resume' });

 # later...

 $torrent->save_resume_data();

...and unless C<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent> decides the resume data is
bad, you'll start right were you left off. I would suggest storing resume
data on a regular basis while the client runs and again on exit.


To view a fully functioning example, see C</tatoeba/004-resume.pl>.

For more on what exactly you're saving and the structure of the data, see
L<Resume API|/"Resume API"> in the
<Net::BitTorrent Internals|/"Net::BitTorrent Internals"> section.

=head2 Save and Restore Client-wide State and DHT Data

Unless you've hard coded everything, being able to restore client-wide
state is a necessary feature.  Besides, DHT can be very slow to boot
without a good set of initial nodes and the spec states that the local
nodeID should not change very often, so resume is a useful thing.

I would use a hash with the following keys:

=over

=item C<.hash>

This would be a SHA-1 hash of the bencoded data in the C<.t>, C<dht>,
C<nodes>, and C<torrents> keys. On restore, I would use this to validate
the data in case it was tampered with.

=item C<.t>

Timestamp.

=item C<.version>

To avoid problems (API changes, etc.), I would use an API version
number and ignore resume data created with a newer/incompatible version.
This value would not be included in the SHA-1 digest used to prevent
tampering.

=item C<dht>

A hash with the following keys:

=over

=item C<id>

The local node ID used in the DHT swarm.  To obtain this, see
L<node_id( )|Net::BitTorrent::DHT/"node_id( )">.

=item C<nodes>

List of nodes in the DHT routing table.

To make life easy, each node would be a hash with the following keys:

=over

=item C<ip>

IP or hostname of the remote node.

=item C<port>

UDP port number the remote port has been contacted on.

=back

A list of nodes with this format is obtained from
L<nodes ( )|Net::BitTorrent::DHT/"nodes ( )">.  To reload these later,
use the L<add_node ( )|Net::BitTorrent::DHT/"add_node ( { [...] } )">
method.

=back

=item C<settings>

These would be any client-wide settings I allow users to change.

=item C<torrents>

This would be a list of filenames, their current status, and some sort of
verification that the .torrent file hasn't been replaced; the infohash
would do.

=back

I would save a bencoded version of this data in a file for later.  For
now, putting all of this into practice is an exercise for the reader.

Note: Reloading the data may require using otherwise private methods
(specifically the private C<Net::BitTorrent::DHT-E<gt>_set_node_id( )>
method). Changes to private methods are not listed in the changelog
found in this distribution but they are noted in the public git
repository's log.

=head2 Set File Download Priorities

See
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::File|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::File/"priority( [NEWVAL] )">.

=head2 Implement My Own Event Loop

[TODO]

=head1 Net::BitTorrent Internals

This section describes all the behind the scenes stuff that makes
C<Net::BitTorrent> work.  Or not work.  It depends.

=head2 Peer ID Specification

Please see
L<Net::BitTorrent::Version|Net::BitTorrent::Version/"Peer ID Specification">.

=head2 IPv6-Related Information

L<Socket6|Socket6> does not seem to work with Win32 so... no plans for
IPv6 right now.

=head2 Implemented Extensions

The BitTorrent Community Forum coordinates the development of the
BitTorrent protocol suite, its reference implementation, and BitTorrent
Enhancement Proposals (BEPs).  For more information, see BEP 0: Index of
BitTorrent Enhancement Proposals http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0000.html

This is the list of extensions used by this release of
L<Net::BitTorrent|Net::BitTorrent> sorted by their progress toward
standardization.

=over

=item *

BEP 5: DHT Protocol - http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0005.html

=item *

BEP 6: Fast Extension - http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0006.html

Note: the Fast Extension is only partially implemented in
L<Net::BitTorrent|Net::BitTorrent>.

=item *

BEP 10: Extension Protocol - http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0010.html

=item *

BEP 12: Multitracker Metadata Extension -
http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0012.html

=item *

BEP 15: UDP Tracker Protocol - http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0015.html

=item *

BEP 27: Private Torrents - http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0027.html

=item *

BEP 32: Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists -
http://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0023.html

=back

=head2 Resume API

C<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent>'s resume data is bencoded and stored in a
file.  To restore this data, use the C<Resume> parameter when calling
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent-E<gt>new( )|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent/"new ( { [ARGS] } )">
or L<Net::BitTorrent-E<gt>add_torrent( )|Net::BitTorrent/"add_torrent ( { ... } )">.

I<Note: The structure and data held in the resume data is subject to
change in future versions.>

=head3 Data Structure

Parsed resume data is a simple hash containing the following keys:

=over

=item C<.format>

A string describing what sort of file this is.  For now, it's value is
C<Net::BitTorrent resume>.

=item C<.t>

Timestamp when data was gathered.

=item C<.version>

API version used to gather data.  To avoid problems (API changes, etc.),
L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent|Net::BitTorrent::Torrent>
will not load resume data created with a higher version.

=item C<bitfield>

A bitvector representing the pieces we already have.

=item C<files>

A list of hashes (one for each file in the .torrent) with the following
keys:

=over

=item C<mtime>

The modified times for the files (or C<0> if the file does not exist).

=item C<priority>

The file's download priority.

=back

=item C<peers>

Compact list of peers we've found either through DHT or from a tracker.

=item C<working>

List of hashes representing pieces we are currently downloading with the
following keys: I<(Subject to change)>

=over

=item C<Block_Count>

Number of blocks contained in the piece.

=item C<Block_Length>

Size of blocks in piece.

=item C<Block_Length_Last>

Size of final block in piece.

=item C<Blocks_Received>

Bitfield representing which blocks have been received and written to
disk.

=item C<Endgame>

Boolean value dependent on endgame state when we began working on this
piece.

=item C<Index>

Zero-based index of the piece.

=item C<Length>

Total size of the piece in bytes.

=item C<Priority>

Priority based (partially) on the piece's containing file.

=item C<Slow>

Boolean value dependent on how long ago we received a block contained
within this piece.

=back

=back

=head2 Development Policy

=over 4

=item * B<All APIs are subject to change.>

Changes to documented or well established parts will be clearly listed
and archived in the F<CHANGES> file.

=item * B<All undocumented functionality is subject to change without notice.>

L<Net::BitTorrent|Net::BitTorrent> is just asploding with incomplete bits
of stuff so I reserve the right to change or eliminate code at any time
without warning I<unless> functionality is defined in POD documentation.
If you sift through the source and find something nifty that isn't
described I<in full> in POD, don't expect your client to work with future
releases.

=back

=head2 Compatibility Notes

This section lists recent major changes in API or behavior between stable
releases.  For older news see the F<Changes> file included with this
distribution.  For detail see the commit logs.

=over

=item v0.050

Protocol Encryption (MSE) is now supported and enabled by default. It is
still rather unstable, so outgoing connections use header-only encryption
but incoming connections allow for full RC4 encrypted sessions.

=item v0.040

Entire distribution was rewritten. Both the internals and the API have
broken compatibility.

=back

=head1 Giving back

If you're interested in assisting with
L<Net::BitTorent|Net::BitTorrent>'s development but don't know where to
begin, here are a few ideas.

=head2 Joining the Project

C<Net::BitTorrent> is too large for just one person to hack on.  If
you're Perl adept and would like to help, you can start by forking the
project on github: http://github.com/sanko/net-bittorrent/.  When ready,
send me a pull request, I'll look over your changes and get back to you.
Minor patches get your name in the changelog.  Major patches get your
name in the L<Acknowledgments|Net::BitTorrent/Acknowledgments> section
and an invitation to be a trusted collaborator.  Oooo.  Ahhh.

=for html <span style="color: #F00; font-size: 1.5em;">

THIS PROJECT IS ACTIVELY SEEKING DEVELOPERS.

If you're interested in helping clear things out of the
L<TODO|Net::BitTorrent::Todo> list or if you have a suggestion and are
willing to see it through to completion, L<contact me|/"Author"> or,
better yet, go ahead and fork the project on github:
http://github.com/sanko/net-bittorrent.

=for html </span>

In general, N::B could use a second or third pair of eyes.  So, if you're
interested in BitTorrent, p2p, or just Perl in general,
L<let me know|/"Author">.

=head2 Bug Reporting

Found bugs should be reported through C<Net::BitTorrent>'s
L<Issue Tracker|/"Issue Tracker">.  Before creating a new report through
C<Net::BitTorrent>'s L<Issue Tracker|/"Issue Tracker">, please review the
following list:

=over

=item 1.

Make sure you are using the most recent stable release.

=item 2.

Make sure the bug is reproducible.

=item 3.

Please write in clear English.

=item 4.

Provide "baby steps" to describe exactly how to replicate the bug.
Sample code is welcome.  The issue tracker also allows attachments so,
if relevant, include the .torrent file.

=item 5.

Search the list of open and resolved issues to make sure the flaw hasn't
already been reported.  If it has, star the issue to stay up to date.

=item 6.

One bug is one bug report.  Please do not include multiple, separate
issues in one report unless they are explicitly related to each other.

=item 7.

Star the issue so you'll be notified of any changes.

=item 8.

Look over your report before submission to be sure you've included as
much detail as possible.  Seriously.  Get up, have a drink of water, come
back, read over it again to make sure you've included everything you
intended, and then submit it.

=back

=head2 Automated Test Reports

Becoming a CPAN Tester is an easy, automatic way to contribute to the
quality of your favorite module and CPAN in general.  If you would like
to contribute automated test reports for C<Net::BitTorrent>, install
C<CPAN::Reporter> from the CPAN shell first:

 $ cpan
 cpan> install CPAN::Reporter
 cpan> reload cpan
 cpan> o conf init test_report
   [...follow the CPAN::Reporter setup prompts...]
 cpan> o conf commit
 cpan> install Net::BitTorrent

For more on becoming a CPAN Tester and why this is useful, see the
L<CPAN::Reporter|CPAN::Reporter/"DESCRIPTION"> documentation and
http://cpantesters.org/.

=head1 See Also

=head2 Support and Information Links for C<Net::BitTorrent>

=over

=item Website and Blog

The official website is http://sankorobinson.com/net-bittorrent/
and related blog entries are posted to http://sankorobinson.com/.

If you're looking for a feed with only on-topic articles, subscribe to
http://sankorobinson.com/atom/?tag=Net::BitTorrent

=item Live support

The official means of support for C<Net::BitTorrent> is through
C<#net-bittorrent> on the p2p IRC network:
irc://irc.p2p-network.net/net-bittorrent

=item Receive Commit and Issue Tracker Updates

These are posted to the public mailing list for which both ATOM 1.0 and
RSS 2.0 feeds are available; see
http://groups.google.com/group/net-bittorrent/feeds.

=item Mailinglist

To subscribe to the list or view the archive, visit
http://groups.google.com/group/net-bittorrent.  Both ATOM 1.0 and RSS
2.0 feeds are provided; see
http://groups.google.com/group/net-bittorrent/feeds for a list.

=item Issue Tracker

Use http://github.com/sanko/net-bittorrent/issues for bug tracking.
Please include as much information as possible and review
the list L<above|/"Bug Reporting">.

=item Twitter

I announce stable builds and occasionally complain on Twitter:
http://twitter.com/net_bitTorrent

=back

=head2 Other Recommend Open Source BitTorrent Clients

=over

=item *

libtorrent (L<http://www.rasterbar.com/products/libtorrent/>) is covered
by the The BSD License.

=item *

Bitflu (L<http://bitflu.workaround.ch/>) is a full client written in
*nix oriented Perl.  It is available under the Perl/Artistic License.

=item *

btpeer (L<http://www.alhem.net/project/btpeer/>) is "a collection of
classes implementing the core client functionality of the BitTorrent
protocol" and has been released under the GPL.

=item *

Arctic (L<http://dev.int64.org/arctic.html>) is a minimal client based on
libtorrent, written in C++ and released under the MIT License.

=back

=head2 Related Information

=over

=item RFC 3986 (URI: Generic Syntax)

Section 2.3. "Unreserved Characters"
(L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.3>)

=item PAUSE FAQ sub-section entitled "Developer Releases"

(L<http://www.cpan.org/modules/04pause.html>)

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

CPAN ID: SANKO

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2009 by Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of The Artistic License 2.0.  See the F<LICENSE>
file included with this distribution or
http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0.  For
clarification, see http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes.

When separated from the distribution, all POD documentation is covered
by the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License.  See
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode.  For
clarification, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/.

Neither this module nor the L<Author|/Author> is affiliated with
BitTorrent, Inc.

=for svn $Id: Notes.pod 3f42870 2009-02-12 05:01:56Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
