=pod

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Design - Note to self: Stick to this or die!

=head1 Description

Blah. Blah. Blah. Initial design spec. Blah. Middle of the night. Yadda.

=head1 API Specification

My overall goal is to have something like this:

  use Net::BitTorrent;
  my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new(
      port         => [6881..6890],
      on_hash_pass => sub { ... },
      on_hash_fail => sub { ... },
  );
  $client->add_torrent( path => 'a/legal.torrent' );
  $client->run(); # Simple wrapper around AnyEvent->condvar->recv;

...or this...

  use AnyEvent;
  use Net::BitTorrent;
  use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
  my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( );
  my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( path => 'a/different.torrent' );
  # ...some sort of UI stuff here, file selection, etc.
  $client->add_torrent( $torrent );
  $torrent->complete->recv;

...or even this...

  use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
  my $t = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( path => 'yet/another.torrent' );
  $t->scrape; # Scrape should work even in standalone mode. ...not announce.
  $t->hashcheck;
  printf <<'END', $t->name, $t->infohash, $t->percent_complete, $t->nodes;
  About %s / %s (%3.2f%% complete)
  [...file list or something...]
  The tracker says there are %d possible nodes in this swarm.
   ...
  END

...and yep, even mentally retarded stuff like...

  use Net::BitTorrentX::Storage::DBD::SQLite; # ...why? I blame lead paint.
  use Net::BitTorrent;
  my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( );
  $client->add_torrent(                                             # Seriously.
      storage => Net::BitTorrentX::Storage::DBD::SQLite->new( ... ),# <- This is
      path    => 'this/is/sparta.torrent'                           # madness.
  );
  $client->run;

...and...

  use AnyEvent;
  use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
  my $dht = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( nodeid => ... );
  $dht->get_peers( $_, \&dht_cb ) for qw[infohash_a infohash_b];
  AnyEvent->condvar->recv; # tick, tick, tick, ding!
  sub dht_cb {
    my ( $infohash, $peers ) = @_;
    printf 'We found %d peers for %s via DHT', scalar( @$peers ), $infohash;
  }

...all work. In other words, anything a nutter-- I mean user may come up with,
Net::BitTorrent should be thin and flexible enough to allow for it.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent

Basic, lightweight class which serves as the main client object and contains
the following attributes:

=over

=item torrents (ArrayRef[Net::BitTorrent::Torrent])

These are strong refs to Net::BitTorrent::Torrent objects.

=item tcp_ipv4 (Object|Glob)

The local TCP socket for IPv4.

=item tcp_ipv6 (Object|Glob)

The local TCP socket for IPv6.

=item udp_ipv4 (Object|Glob)

The local UDP endpoint for IPv4.

=item udp_ipv6 (Object|Glob)

The local UDP endpoint for IPv6.

=item timers (HashRef)

There will probably be a number of client-wide timers (AnyEvent timers,
actually). This is where I'll stick 'em.

=back

=head3 Net::BitTorrent->new( [...] )

Creates a new client object, opening random (matching) ports on both UDP and
TCP for both IPv4 and IPv6. The PeerID and DHT NodeID is generated internally.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent;
my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( );

=pod

To modify this default behavior, the following arguments are recognized:

=over

=item C<disable_ipv6>

Disables incoming IPv6 connections for both UDP and TCP.

=item C<disable_ipv4>

Disables incoming IPv4 connections for both UDP and TCP.

=item C<disable_tcp>

Disables incoming TCP connections for both IPv4 and IPv6.

=item C<disable_udp>

Disables incoming UDP connections for both IPv4 and IPv6. Note that this
greatly restricts such things as DHT which require two way communication via
UDP.

=item C<port>

A single integer or a list of integers.

When handed a single port number, failure to open TCP/UDP sockets on this port
results in a non-fatal error.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent;
my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( port => 1338 );
print $client->port; # Should print 1338 if the port was open sucessfully.

=pod

When handed a list of port numbers, each is attempted in order until we can
open all sockets (TCP and UDP on both IPv4 and IPv6 if enabled) on this single
port number. If we exhaust the list without opening a port, a non-fatal error
is thrown.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent;
my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( port => [6834, 9517, 12589 ... 36587] );
print $client->port;

=pod

=back

If both C<disable_ipv4> and C<disable_ipv6> or both C<disable_tcp> and
C<disable_udp> are defined and true, a non-fatal error is thrown.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent

Net::BitTorrent::Torrent is the base class for all .torrent-related objects.
If no arguments are passed to the constructor, metadata for a new .torrent
will be generated. Otherwise, this simple base contains the following data:

=over

=item C<path> or C<infohash>

The constructor requires either one of these:

=over

=item C<path>

This is the actual filename of the .torrent file you would like to load. This
file is slurped and the metadata it contains is parsed out on construction.

=item C<infohash>

As an alternative to the C<path> attribute, you may pass an infohash for a
swarm you would like to join. This will require support for BEP09 and BEP05
(or should I allow a tracker to be added?). After the metadata is retrieved
from the swarm, it will be stored as C<{save_path}/{infohash}.torrent>.

=back

=item C<storage>

This optional argument expects a C<Net::BitTorrent::Storage> object (or
subclass). This allows

=back

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( path => 'some.torrent' )

A .torrent can be loaded without a parent client object for information
gathering. Data will be expected to be in the current working directory when
the object was created.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( path => 'some.torrent' );

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( path => ..., base_dir => 'q:\storage' )

Loads a .torrent which looks for data to be in the C<q:\storage> directory.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new(
    path     => 'some.torrent',
    base_dir => 'X:\BitTorrent\incoming'
);

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->status( )



=cut





=pod

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory

This class initially contains no files, trackers, or any other metadata.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( );

$torrent->files( 'FileB.ext', 'FileC.ext' );
$torrent->add_file( 'FileA.ext' );
$torrent->add_trackers( );
open my ($FH), '>', 'some.torrent';
syswrite($FH, $torrent->metadata); # Write the new .torrent to disk
close $FH;

=pod

This class will be coerce-able into a full fledged Net::BitTorrent::Torrent
object.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent;
use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;

my $new_torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new( );
# ... Add files, etc.
my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( );
$client->add_torrent( $new_torrent ); # Metadata is loaded into new object

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new( [...] )

This constructor accepts the following arguments (all of which are optional):

=over

=item C<name>

The name used by the torrent.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new(
    name => 'GNUBuntu 10.6-x64'
);

=pod

=item C<files>

List of filenames. These files must exist for metadata generation.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new(
    files => [
        'some/random/file.txt', 'README', $0
    ]
);

=pod

=item C<trackers>

List of list of URLs.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new(
    trackers => [
        [
            'http://perlishtracker.pl/announce.pl'
        ],
        [
            'http://tracker.prq.to/announce',
            'http://tracker.openbittorrent.com/announce',
            'http://tracker.publicbt.com/announce',
            'http://btfans.3322.org:8000/announce',
            'http://tracker.ktxp.com:6868/announce',
            'http://tracker.ktxp.com:7070/announce',
            'http://tracker.levelup.cn:8080/announce',
        ]
    ]
);

=pod

=item C<private>

Bool value.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new(
    private => !'Anit-DRM'
);

=pod

=item C<piece_size>

Integer.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new(
    piece_size => 1024 * 32
);

=pod

=item C<storage>

Net::BitTorrent::Storage object.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrentX::Storage::DBI; # Some crazy database-based storage scheme
use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->new(
    storage => Net::BitTorrentX::Storage::DBI->new( ... )
);

=pod

=back

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->files( )

Returns the list of currently loaded files.

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->set_files( ... )

Expects a list of filenames which are added in the order they were passed.
This method clears the current list of files first. Duplicate files are only
added once (when first seen).

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( );
$torrent->set_files( qw[file_a.txt file_b.txt file_c.txt] );
print join ', ', $torrent->files( );    # file_a.txt, file_b.txt, file_c.txt
$torrent->set_files( qw[file_d.txt file_e.txt] );
print join ', ', $torrent->files( );    # file_d.txt, file_e.txt

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->add_files( ... )

Pushes a single file to the end of the list. Files already in the list are not
added a second time.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( );
$torrent->set_files( qw[vid_a.avi vid_b.avi] );
$torrent->add_file( 'vid_c.mpeg' );
print join ', ', $torrent->files( );    # vid_a.avi, vid_b.avi, vid_c.mpeg

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->trackers( )

Returns the list of current torrent tiers. This is actually a list of lists.

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Factory->add_tracker( ... )

Pushes a tier of trackers onto the stack. This method expects a list of URLs.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent;
use Data::Dump;

my $torrent = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent->new( );
$torrent->add_tracker('http://publictracker.com/not/real/announce.pl');
$torrent->add_tracker(qw[http://sometracker.com/announce.pl
                         udp://othertracker.com/announce.php]);
ddx $torrent->trackers( ); # prints...
# [
#   [ 'http://publictracker.com/not/real/announce.pl' ],
#   [
#     'http://sometracker.com/announce.pl',
#     'udp://othertracker.com/announce.php'
#   ]
# ]

=pod

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Storage

This object is passed or created by a Net::BitTorrent::Torrent object to
interface with the local filesystem.

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Storage->new( allocation_mode => ... )

Expected parameters for the constructor include:

=over

=item C<allocation_mode>

There are three modes in which storage (files on disk) are allocated in
Net::BitTorrent.

=over

=item * The traditional C<full> allocation mode. Net::BitTorrent uses
C<truncate> to allocate pieces which means that on NTFS with file compression
turned on, full allocation mode will only allocate storage for the downloaded
pieces. On other filesystems, entire files are filled up with zeros before
anything is downloaded.

=item * The C<compact> allocation mode, where only files are allocated for
actual pieces that have been downloaded.

=item * The C<sparse> allocation, sparse files are used, and pieces are
downloaded directly to where they belong.

=back

=back

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Storage::Mode::Sparse [Role]

On filesystems which support sparse files, this allocation mode will only use
as much space as has been downloaded. It does not require an allocation pass
on startup.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Storage::Mode::Full [Role]

In full allocation mode, files are C<truncate>d to the correct size and null
filled. This is the simplest form of allocation and the default but comes with
the following drawbacks:

=over

=item * Allocating new files may take a while depending on their size since the
entire file will need to be null filled.

=item * Disk caches usually perform extreamly poorly with random access to large
files and may slow down a download session considerably.

=back

Benefits of this mode include:

=over

=item * Downloaded pieces are written directly to their final place in the files
and the total number of disk operations will be fewer and may also play nicer
to filesystems' file allocation. Fragmentation may also be less of a problem.

=item * No risk of a download failing because of a full disk during download.
...unless sparse or compressed files are being used.

=back

=head2 Net::BitTorrentX::Storage::Mode::Compact [Role]

Compact allocation only allocates as much storage as it needs to keep the
pieces downloaded so far. This means that pieces will be moved around to be
placed at their final position in the files after downloading is complete.

This role will probably not be included in the distribution.

=cut

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT

TODO

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT::Standalone [Role]

This role obviously extends Net::BitTorrent::DHT to function without a parent
Net::BitTorrent client.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT::Callbacks [Role]

This is an easy to apply role (...as if any were difficult) that adds an old
skool global callback system to the base DHT object. Currently supported
callbacks include...

=over

=item C<on_dht_packet_in>

=item C<on_dht_packet_in_okay>

=item C<on_dht_packet_in_error>

=item C<on_dht_packet_out>

=item C<on_dht_packet_out_okay>

=item C<on_dht_packet_out_error>

=item C<on_dht_ping_request_out>

=item C<on_dht_ping_reply_out>

=item C<on_dht_ping_request_in>

=item C<on_dht_ping_reply_in>

=back

This list will expand as the DHT system moves toward completion.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Network

This is the base class for Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP and
Net::BitTorrent::Network::TCP. See those modules for API information.

Internally, this class contains the following attributes:

=over

=item C<ipv4>

This is the AnyEvent io object related to this socket.

=item C<ipv6>

This is the AnyEvent io object related to this socket.

=item C<ipv4_sock>

This is a weak reference to the actual socket.

=item C<ipv6_sock>

This is a weak reference to the actual socket.

=item C<ipv4_host>

This is the hostname open for connections. The default value is C<0.0.0.0>.

=item C<ipv6_host>

This is the hostname open for connections. The default value is C<::>.

=item C<ipv4_port>

This is the port number open for connections. The default is C<0>.

=item C<ipv6_port>

This is the port number open for connections. The default is C<0>.

=item C<on_data_in>

This is a coderef which is called as a method whenever there is data to be
read or a connection to process.

=back

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP [Ext]

This class holds both IPv4 and IPv6 UDP sockets.

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( )

Called without any arguments, this constructor open a random port on the IPv6
hostname C<::> and then attempts to open the same port for IPv4's C<0.0.0.0>.

This is the same as...

    Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new(
        port         => 0,
        ipv4_host    => '0.0.0.0',
        ipv6_host    => '::',
        disable_ipv4 => 0,
        disable_ipv6 => 0
    );

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( port => 3652 )

When handed a specific port number, the constructor attempts to open this port
on IPv6 and later IPv4.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( port => 3652 );

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv4_port => 3652, ipv6_port => 3652 )

This allows you to open different ports for IPv4 and IPv6. I don't see how
this could be of any use but... there it is.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv4_port => 3652, ipv6_port => 3652 );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( port => [10000 .. 10050] ) [TODO]

When handed a specific list of port numbers, the constructor steps through the
list, attempting to open matching IPv6 and IPv4 ports until it succeeds.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( port => [10000 .. 10050] );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv6_host => '::1' )

The IPv6 socket will bind to this hostname. The default is C<::>.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv6_host => '::1' );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv4_host => '127.0.0.1' )

The IPv4 socket will bind to this hostname. The default is C<0.0.0.0>.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv4_host => '127.0.0.1' );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( disable_ipv6 => 0 )

Disables the creation of an IPv6 socket.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( disable_ipv6 => 0 );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( ipv4 => 0 )

Disables the creation of an IPv4 socket.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( disable_ipv4 => 0 );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( disable_ipv6 => 0, disable_ipv4 => 0 )

This makes the constructor a no-op.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( disable_ipv6 => 1, disable_ipv4 => 1 );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( on_data_in => sub { ... } )

This callback will be called as a method whenever there is newly C<recv>ed
data.

When triggered, the following parameters are passed:
C<$local_sock, $peer_paddr, $peer_ip, $peer_port, $data, $flags>.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP->new( on_data_in => sub { warn 'incoming!' } );

=pod

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::Network::TCP [Ext]

This class holds both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets.

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::Network::TCP->new( on_data_in => sub { ... } )

This callback will be called as a method whenever there is a newly C<accept>ed
connection.

When triggered, the following parameters are passed:
C<$local_sock, $peer_paddr, $peer_ip, $peer_port, $peer_sock>.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::Network::TCP;
my $udp = Net::BitTorrent::Network::TCP->new( on_data_in => sub { warn 'incoming!' } );

=pod

See Net::BitTorrent::Network::UDP for more information.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT

Net::BitTorrent's DHT functionality... blah blah...

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( client => $client )

This is how DHT is used internally. Our local nodeid is generated
automatically.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent;
my $client = Net::BitTorrent->new( );
my $dht = $client->dht;

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( client => $client, nodeid => 'F' x 40 )

For reasons I have yet to think of, our local DHT node can be set during
construction. This is mostly useful when creating a
L<standalone DHT node|Net::BitTorrent::DHT::Standalone>.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
my $node_a = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( nodeid => 'F' x 40 );
my $node_b = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( nodeid => pack 'H*', F' x 40 );

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->find_node( $target, $callback )

This method asks for remote nodes with nodeIDs closer to our target. As the
remote nodes respond, the callback is called with the following arguments:

=over

=item * target

This is the target nodeid. This is useful when you've set the same callback
for multiple, concurrent C<find_node( )> L<quest|/"Quests and Callbacks"> .

=item * node

This is a blessed object. TODO.

=item * nodes

This is a list of ip:port combinations the remote node claims are close to our
target.

=back

A single C<find_node> L<quest|/"Quests and Callbacks"> is an array ref which
contains the following data:

=over

=item * target

This is the target nodeID.

=item * coderef

This is the callback triggered as we locate new peers.

=item * nodes

This is a list of nodes we have announced to so far.

=item * timer

This is an L<AnyEvent|AnyEvent> timer which is triggered every few minutes.

Don't modify this.

=back

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
my $node = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( );
my $quest_a = $dht->find_node(pack('H*', 'A' x 40),  \&dht_cb);
my $quest_b = $dht->find_node('1' x 40, \&dht_cb);

sub dht_cb {
    my ($target, $node, $nodes) = @_;
    say sprintf '%s:%d handed us %d nodes they claim are close to %s',
          $node->host, $node->port, scalar(@$nodes),  $target->to_Hex;
}

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->get_peers( $infohash, $callback )

This method initiates a search for peers serving a torrent with this infohash.
As they are found, the callback is called with the following arguments:

=over

=item * infohash

This is the infohash related to these peers. This is useful when you've set
the same callback for multiple, concurrent C<get_peers( )> quests.

=item * node

This is a blessed object. TODO.

=item * peers

This is an array ref of peers sent to us by aforementioned remote node.

=back

A single C<get_peers> L<quest|/"Quests and Callbacks"> is an array ref which
contains the following data:

=over

=item * infohash

This is the infohash related to these peers.

=item * coderef

This is the callback triggered as we locate new peers.

=item * peers

This is a compacted list of all peers found so far. This is probably more
useful than the list passed to the callback.

=item * timer

This is an L<AnyEvent|AnyEvent> timer which is triggered every five minutes.
When triggered, the node requests new peers from nodes in the bucket nearest
to the infohash.

Don't modify this.

=back

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
my $node = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( );
my $quest_a = $dht->get_peers(pack('H*', 'A' x 40), \&dht_cb);
my $quest_b = $dht->get_peers('1' x 40, \&dht_cb);

sub dht_cb {
    my ($infohash, $node, $peers) = @_;
    say sprintf 'We found %d peers for %s from %s:%d via DHT', scalar(@$peers),
        $infohash->to_Hex, $node->host, $node->port;
}

=pod

=head3 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->announce_peer( $infohash, $port, $callback )

This method announces that the peer controlling the querying node is
downloading a torrent on a port. These outgoing queries are sent to nodes
'close' to the target infohash. As the remote nodes respond, the callback is
called with the following arguments:

=over

=item * infohash

This is the infohash related to this announcment. This is useful when you've
set the same callback for multiple, concurrent C<announce_peer( )>
L<quest|/"Quests and Callbacks"> .

=item * port

This is port you defined above.

=item * node

This is a blessed object. TODO.

=back

A single C<announce_peer> L<quest|/"Quests and Callbacks"> is an array ref
which contains the following data:

=over

=item * infohash

This is the infohash related to these peers.

=item * coderef

This is the callback triggered as we locate new peers.

=item * port

This is port you defined above.

=item * nodes

This is a list of nodes we have announced to so far.

=item * timer

This is an L<AnyEvent|AnyEvent> timer which is triggered every few minutes.

Don't modify this.

=back

C<announce_peer> queries require a token sent in reply to a C<get_peers> query
so they should be used together.

=for meditation
Should I automatically send get_peers queries before an announce if the token
is missing?

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
my $node = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( );
my $quest_a = $dht->announce_peer(pack('H*', 'A' x 40), 6881, \&dht_cb);
my $quest_b = $dht->announce_peer('1' x 40, 9585, \&dht_cb);

sub dht_cb {
    my ($infohash, $port, $node) = @_;
    say sprintf '%s:%d now knows we are serving %s on port %d',
          $node->host, $node->port,$infohash->to_Hex, $port;
}

=pod

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT::Standalone (role)

This role is applied automatically when the Net::BitTorrent::DHT constructor
is called without a blessed Net::BitTorrent object in the C<client> parameter.
For API documentation, see L<Net::BitTorrent::DHT>.

Standalone DHT nodes may be useful for statistical purposes.

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( )

This creates a new standalone DHT node. Random ports will be opened to
incoming UDP connections via IPv4 and IPv6.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
my $node = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( );

=pod

=head2 Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( port => ... )

Opens a specific UDP port number to the outside world on both IPv4 and IPv6.

=cut

use Net::BitTorrent::DHT;
my $node_a = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( port => 1123 );
my $node_b = Net::BitTorrent::DHT->new( port => [1235 .. 9875] );

=pod

=head1 Quests and Callbacks

Net::BitTorrent's new callback system differs greatly from the previous
version. When a callback is set, the return value is an arrayref containing
the basic information to keep the callback relevent. The only strong reference
to this 'quest' or 'callback' is the value returned so, for example, to stop
searching for peers, simply destroy this quest in your code (end the scope,
setting the variable used to store it to C<undef>, etc.).

TODO

=head1 Silly ASCII Art

A step above calculator humor.

=head2 Possible Client <-> Torrent <-> Tracker Relationship

I banged my head on something hard and this popped out:

       .---.-----.-----.------[client]--.
      |    |     |     |         |      |
      |  [url] [url] [url]   [torrent]  |
      |    |     |     |                |
      |    '---------------[tier]-----. |
      |                       |       | |
      |`----.-----.-----.     |    [torrent]
      |     |     |     |     |       |
    [url] [url] [url] [url]--'        |
      |     |     |     |             |
       `---------------[tier]---------'

If each url in a tier of trackers is linked to the parent client, I can avoid
creating duplicate objects for shared urls and enable multi-infohash scrapes.

=head2 RoutingTable <-> Node <-> Bucket Relationship

     .--.--.--.--.-[RT]--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.-- ...
     |  |  |  |  |  |    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
    [*][*][*][*][*] |   [*][*][*][*][*][*][*][*]
                    |
              .-----'---.----- ...
              |         |
    ... -----[B]     .-[B]
              |     |   |
     .--.--.--+--.  |  .+-.--.--.--.--.--.--.
     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
    [N][N][N][N][N] | [N][N][N][N][N][N][N][N]  N Assigned   max 8/bucket
                    | [n][n][n][n][n][n][n][n]  n Backup     max 8/bucket
                    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   * Unassigned max 30/table
                     '-'--'--'--'--'--'--'--'

Unassigned nodes are kept in a cache held by the routing table itself. These
are nodes with outstanding queries (usually pings). When they respond, we will
know their node id and can assign them to the correct bucket.

=head1 Remnants

This is where I'll toss things which are currently disconnected but may be
important later.

=over

=item L<Sys::Sendfile>

=item Namespace plan v1.0

   package                          type        progress/proiority
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net::BitTorrent                  class       todo (req rethink)
  *  ::DHT                          class       todo (BEP32)/high
  *  ::DHT::Standalone              ext class   done
  *  ::DHT::Callbacks               role        todo/low
  *  ::Protocol::BEP05              docs
  *    ::Packets                    utility     done
  *    ::RoutingTable               class
  *    ::Bucket                     class
  *    ::Node                       class
  *    ::Tracker                    class
  *  ::Protocol::BEP23              docs        done
  *    ::Compact                    utility     done
  * ::Network                       base class  todo (transfer limits?)
  *   ::TCP                         ext class   done
  *   ::UDP                         ext class   done
  *   ::Utility                                 done
    ::Peer
    ::Storage                       class
      ::Node                        base class
      ::File                        ext class
      ::Cache                       ext class (subpiece cache)
    ::Torrent                       class
      ::Standalone                  role
      ::Factory                     role?
  * ::Types                         Moose types

Packages which meet (or in rare cases exceed) their current specification as
defined here are marked with C<*>.

These are packages I really haven't given enough thought to:

   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03            Documentation
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Metadata
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Packets
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Tracker   single tier of trackers (Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Tracker::HTTP|Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP15::Tracker::UDP)
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Tracker::HTTP
                                                Single url
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09            Documentation
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09::Packets   Builds and parses send metadata packets
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP10            Documentation
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP10::Packets   Builds and parses ext prtocol packets
  *Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP12::MultiTracker
                                                Multitracker torrent (ArrayRef[Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP12::Trackers::Tier])
                                                extends Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Tracker
  *Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP12::MultiTracker::Tier
                                                Multitracker torrent (ArrayRef[Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03::Tracker::HTTP|Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP15::Tracker::UDP])
   Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP15            Builds and parses UDP tracker packets, handles for UDP tracker communication
  *Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP15::Tracker::UDP
                                                Single url
  *Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP27::Private::Metadata
                                                Private metadata (uses around '...' to override BEP03::Metadata methods)

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

CPAN ID: SANKO

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.

Neither this module nor the L<Author|/Author> is affiliated with BitTorrent,
Inc.

=for rcs $Id$

=cut
